---
layout: post
title: "Honored to be selected for the University of Florida 40 under 40!"
date: 2024-12-28 10:00:00 -0500
categories: news
published: false 
---

I am thrilled and humbled to share that I have been selected as one of the University of Florida's 40 Gators Under 40! This prestigious award recognizes outstanding young alumni who have made significant contributions to their fields and communities.

I am incredibly grateful to the University of Florida for this recognition. It is an honor to be included among such a distinguished group of alumni. 

As an epidemiologist, data scientist, and public servant, I have dedicated my career to using data for good. I am passionate about using my skills and experience to make a positive impact on the world.

I am excited to continue my work and make a difference in the lives of others. I believe that data has the power to transform our world, and I am committed to using it to create a better future for all.

Go Gators!

**#40GatorsUnder40 #UFAlumni #DataForGood**

**About Dr. Sheldon Waugh:**

Dr. Sheldon Waugh is a public servant, data scientist, and epidemiologist with over six years of experience in the government sector. He is currently a Lead Data Scientist at the U.S. Department of Commerce, Office of Inspector General (DOC OIG), where he leads a team of data scientists in conducting data science projects based on audits and investigations within the DOC. He is also a Major in the U.S. Army Reserves.

Dr. Waugh has a strong commitment to public service and using data for good. He has been recognized for his work with several awards, including the U.S. Census Director's Award for Innovation and the Department of Commerce's Bronze Award. He is also a recipient of the Army Medicine Annual Wolf Pack Award for his work on the APHC COVID-19 Task Force Team.

Dr. Waugh is a proud alumnus of the University of Florida, where he earned his Bachelor of Science in Animal Sciences, Master of Public Health in Epidemiology, and Doctor of Philosophy in Epidemiology. He is also a graduate of the U.S. Army War College, where he earned a Master of Strategic Studies.

**#GatorNation #TripleGator #PublicService #DataScience #Epidemiology**
